you want the chance to be reduced, not
the rate [music]
to be reduced. Because when you say the
rate is to be reduced, that means you're
just accepting the fact that you're
going to be injured. Wow, that's a
really bad attitude to have because some
of the training injuries you can have
when lifting heavy, like, you know,
let's talk about chest press. You can
tear a pec,
it'll never look right ever for the rest
of your life, depending on how big the
tear is. Like, is that really worth
rolling the dice over? I don't think it
is. If you're going to train with high
intensity, you always want the strategy
that is going to give you the most force
through the muscle
and the least
chance of injury.
>> [music]
>> Hi, my name's John Jaquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective beyond what a
lot of the sports performance guys and
influencers have on social media. Today,
I want to talk about a really strange
subject. Okay, I've been coming across a
couple of videos
and, you know, I don't like making fun
of people or calling people out cuz I
think when somebody's wrong, they were
probably just given the wrong
information. So, I don't want to make
fun of people. So, that's why I don't
have an example video for this. But,
I've seen a lot of videos talking about
how you can reduce your injury rate
in training. First one of those, I was
like, well,
that guy just didn't really put together
that subject very well. Uh or he didn't
title his video very well. And then,
I've seen this a couple of times,
different influencers making videos
about reducing your injury rate. And I'm
thinking, your injury rate should be
zero. There is no rate at all. Like,
you shouldn't be rolling the dice
with injury. And maybe I'm biased
in this subject because
one of the best things about variable
resistance is where you're at risk of
injury, you're slightly off-loaded.
So, as in, you know, I have super high
load here, a normal load here, and
slightly lighter load here. So, by the
time I'm going to fatigue in the weaker
range of motion, if I'm holding 550 out
here, I might only be holding 200 lb at
the bottom.
So, am I going to injure
with 200 lb in my weaker range of motion
if I can handle 550 at the top? Not a
chance.
I mean, maybe there's a chance. There's
There's always a chance for injury. But,
you want the chance to be reduced, not
the rate to be reduced. Because when you
say the rate is to be reduced, that
means you're just accepting the fact
that you're going to be injured. And
wow, that's a really bad attitude to
have because some of the
training injuries you can have when
lifting heavy, like, you know, let's
talk about chest press. You can tear a
pec.
It'll never look right ever for the rest
of your life, depending on how big the
tear is. Like, is that really worth
rolling the dice over? I don't think it
is. I mean, hey,
the punchline isn't necessarily you have
to train with variable resistance, but
if you're going to train with high
intensity, you always want the strategy
that is going to give you the most force
through the muscle
and the least
chance of injury. There's
other approaches. And also, like, if you
want to use variable resistance but
don't want to use X3, there's you can
set up banding in a regular power rack,
and you can look at the old Westside
Barbell videos for
uh you know, just some guide on that.
But, ultimately, don't ever accept the
idea that you're just going to get
injured.
Be smarter than that. Have a better
strategy than that. I I wrote the book
Weightlifting Is a Waste of time to help
with exactly that subject, please read
the book or continue watching my videos
and I won't ever talk about injury rate.
I'll talk about just avoiding injuries.
Thank you. I hope this helped. Leave me
a comment and I'll I'll see how helpful
I can be
in the comments. Thanks. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people
>> [music]
>> that doesn't just instantly grow from
lifting regular weights,
we've got the answer for you.
>> [music]